## Udactity Data Engineer Nanodegree Project: Data Modeling with Postgres

A music startup named Sparkify wants to analyze and gain insight on the data they've been collecting on the songs and the user's activity on their new music streaming app. One of the main goals of the analytics and data science team is to understand what songs users are listening to. The collected data resides in two different folders:

* a directory of JSON logs in user behaniour on the music app 
* a directory with JSON metadata on every song in the music app.

The data engineer team has been assigned with the task to generate a Postgres shema database with tables and an ETL pipeline in order to optimize queries on song play analysis. 

### Datasets 

### Song_data
The available song dataset is a subset of real song dataset from the [Million Song Dataset](https://labrosa.ee.columbia.edu/millionsong/). The dataset consist of files in JSON format and it is located in the `data/song_data` directory. Each file contains metadata about a song and the artist who performed the song. 

### Log_data
The available log dataset consists of log files generated by [this event simulator](https://github.com/Interana/eventsim). The dataset consist of files in JSON format and it is located in the`data/log_data` directory. Each file contains simulation activity logs from a music app based on specified configurations and on the songs in the song_data dataset.

### Program execution

* Execute the following command to generate the database and its tables:
    `python3 create_tables.py`
   
* Execute the following command to load the data and insert it to the database:
    `python3 etl.py`.

### Schema Architecture 

### Fact tables
#### Songplays
Records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with `page`

* The dimension table `song` stores the songs in the music database.
* The dimension table `artists` stores the artists the in music database.
* The dimension table `time` stores the timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units.

### Dimension tables
#### Users
Stores the `users` in the app.

#### Song
Stores the `songs` in the music database.

#### Artists
Stores the `artists` the in music database.

#### Time
Stores the timestamps of the records in `sonplays` table separated into specific units e.g hour, day, week, month etc.


### Purpose of this database

This database allows to aggregate all songs, artists, users and songplays in a single database. In this way, the company disposes of the needed data stored in a unique structure and can thus analyze different scenarios easily. For instance, one can analyze the popularity of different songs or artists. Also, it is possible to perform analysis with geographic information. One can for instance determine which song is popular in which country and region.